https://www.simplilearn.com/tutorials/blockchain-tutorial/blockchain-interview-questions

1. Differentiate between Blockchain and Hyperledger?


2: How do you explain Blockchain technology to someone who doesn't know it?


3: What is Merkel Tree?
Merkel Tree is a data structure that is used for verifying a block. 
It is in the form of a binary tree containing cryptographic hashes of
 each block. A Merkle tree is structured similarly to a binary tree where
 each leaf node is a hash of a block of transactional data and each
 non-leaf node is a hash of its leaf node. The Merkel root or hash root 
is the final hash root of all the transaction hashes. It encompasses all
 the transactions that are
 underlying all the non-leaf nodes.


4. What do you mean by blocks in Blockchain technology?

Blockchain is a distributed database of immutable records called 
blocks, which are secured using cryptography. Refer to the video 
to see the various attributes of a block.


5. How is Blockchain distributed ledger different from a traditional ledger?

A Blockchain distributed ledger is highly transparent as compared 
to a traditional ledger.


::Blockchain distributed ledgers are irreversible. Information 
registered on a distributed ledger cannot be modified whereas on 
a traditional ledger 
it is reversible.


6. How can you identify a block?



7. What is cryptography? What is its role in Blockchain?


8. What are the different types of Blockchain?

::/In Consortium Blockchain, the consensus process is controlled by
 only specific nodes. However, ledgers are visible to all participants
 in the consortium Blockchain. Example, Ripple.


:://public blockchainPublic Blockchain ledgers are visible to all
 the users on the internet and any user can verify and add a block 
of transactions to the Blockchain.
 Examples, Bitcoin, and Ethereum.


:://Private Blockchain ledgers are visible to users on the 
internet but only specific users
 in the organization can verify and add transactions. 


9. What happens when you try to deploy a file with multiple contracts?

In Blockchain, deploying a file with multiple contracts is not 
possible. The compiler only deploys the last contract from the
 uploaded file and 
the remaining contracts are neglected.


10. What is a Genesis Block?

:://The genesis block is the first block in the Blockchain which is also known as block 0


::/In Blockchain, it is the only block that doesn’t refer to its previous block.

:://It defines the parameters of the Blockchain such as,level of difficulty,
consensus mechanism etc. to mine blocks


11. How is the hash (Block signature) generated?

::/The process of generating a block signature involves:

::/Passing transaction details through a one-way hash function i.e., SHA-256.


12. List down some of the extensively used cryptographic algorithms.

SHA - 256
RSA (Rivest-Shamir-Adleman)
Triple DES
Ethash
Blowfish


13. What is a smart contract and list some of its applications?

14. What is the Ethereum network and how many
 Ethereum networks are you familiar with?

:There are three types of networks in Ethereum:

:://Test network (like Ropsten, Kovan, Rinkeby) - Allow users to run 
their smart contracts with
 no fees before deploying it on the main network 



15:. Where do nodes run a smart contract code? 

Nodes run smart contracts code on Ethereum Virtual Machine (EVM). It 
is a virtual machine designed to operate as a runtime environment for Ethereum-based smart contracts.



16. What is a Dapp and how is it different from a normal application?
A Dapp has its back-end code (smart contract) which runs on a 
decentralized 
peer-to-peer network
Smart contract (backend code)
Blockchain (P2P contract) 



17. Name some leading open source platforms for developing Blockchain applications.

1:/Ethereum is one of the popular platforms for building Blockchain-based applications

2:/Eris is used for building enterprise-based solutions

3:/Some of the other widely used platforms for building Blockchain include Hyperledger, Multichain, Open chain.

 